---
layout: blog
title: "UX and B2B Companies: Driving Conversions"
date: 2022-04-26T21:03:53.636Z
---
<p>I recently read <a href="https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesagencycouncil/2022/01/13/what-b2b-companies-can-learn-about-ux-from-the-websites-of-leading-fortune-500-companies/?sh=5b29075426d3" target="blank">an article on Forbes</a> that goes over many points I agree with when tackling the challenge of producing an amazing user experience. The focus of the article in on business-to-business companies specifically. After ranking 34 B2B technology firms on their ability to convert visitors, a set of six main factors are presented that appear to help the most for driving conversions.</p>

<p>The first of which is functionality. This may seem like an obvious one to any fellow designer, but I have been presented with many less than functional sites within my studies as examples of what not to do. If a website functions in a way that drives costumers away from your main goal, purchasing, then obviously a redesign is in order. How does one get a customer from initial contact to purchase? A narrative. The user experience should be centered around a narrative that continuously drives the potential customer towards the, hopefully, only logical conclusion: that your company is right for them. An experience that does not allow a customer to identify with your brand’s messaging is not functionally sound.</p>

<p>The second point discussed is navigation structure. I’m not talking about the visual design aspect of a navigation bar, but rather the underlying structure used to get potential customers engaging with your site to eventually generate leads. A few navigational elements within your menu that lead to pages with broad information is less effective than an intuitive menu that allows potential leads to find the information that is most relevant to them. I do not know many people that prefer scanning a large swathe of information when they can click through directly to what they need. This approach also gets the point across that you understand their individual concerns and are capable of helping them solve their problem.</p>

<p>Speaking of scanning, there are pages which are almost always scanned by visitors: homepages. This is the third point of the article. Homepages must be scannable with a clear message that leads customers to your intended goal. This message should be the message that is echoed by the functionality of your overall user experience. Customers should already have a clear idea of where they are headed before diving in. Story-driven content allows customers to better identify with a company’s overall message. This story should be ever-present in each action taken on the site. This story begins with key information on the homepage. It is important not to overload customers with too much information however. If your messaging is strong, it will drive engagement and customers will find the relevant information as they continue the narrative.</p>

<p>The fourth point discusses the importance of the message mentioned before on the homepage. The homepage is the prime location for getting branding across. This is most effectively achieved by placing this messaging within a hero banner, preferably, or just somewhere near the top of your page. It should be one of the first pieces of information scanned on the homepage. A mission statement or manifesto is a strong way to get your companies brand messaging across and drive engagement.</p>

<p>Point number five discusses a core-tenant of Miyagi-Do Karate: balance. Good design is not achieved on a whim but through careful consideration of what comes across as balanced. This is achieved through a variety of attractive colors, white-space, and appropriate padding between elements on the page. One could certainly get creative when designing a site and produce a page no where close to what anyone is used to seeing. How effective would this be though? As fun as it may sound, not very effective. A straightforward layout is far more effective at driving conversions than imaginative design because it is more usable. It would be difficult to generate leads if they are too busy leaving your page after spending ten seconds figuring out how to use it.</p>

<p>The last point of the article deals with interactivity and how it relates to visitor’s attention. A homepage that is interactive enhances the overall UX by providing further engagement and storytelling. Interactive elements allow a homepage to condense an otherwise cluttered nightmare into a series of engagements that tell the story of your company. Any of these elements could link the user to the information they’ve been searching for while effortlessly getting your company’s message across in the process.</p>